---
id: vote
title: Vote
---

##  Introduction

bHERMES Voting is a governance mechanism that allows holders of bHERMES to have a say in the distribution of newly minted HERMES among the different Gauges on the platform. By voting, bHERMES holders can allocate their bHERMES balance to the Gauges of their choice and in return, they receive 100% of the gauge's revenue.

This enables a self-optimizing system where bHERMES voters direct most emissions to gauges that generate the most revenue. This helps to ensure that the platform remains profitable and sustainable in the long term.

To participate in bHERMES Voting, a user must first acquire bHERMES and vote-burn (Burn) their HERMES. This process enables them to start voting for Gauges and allows them to:

- **Direct HERMES Emissions to Gauges**: By voting, bHERMES holders can determine the distribution of newly minted HERMES among the different Gauges on the platform.

- **Vote on Gauges to determine their share of emissions**: bHERMES holders can use their voting power to influence the proportion of newly minted HERMES allocated to a specific gauge.

- **Earn Fees**: By allocating their voting power to a specific gauge, bHERMES holders can earn a share of the fees generated by that gauge.

- **Collect Bribes**: Some gauges may offer bribes to bHERMES holders in exchange for their voting power allocation. These bribes are deposited by protocols that are looking to rent liquidity.

It's important to note that bHERMES holders can change their vote at any time and as many times they want per week. However, Bribes and fees are all distributed at the end of each epoch, every Thursday 00:00 UTC. There is a 24-hour grace period (every Wednesday 00:00 UTC) before the end of an epoch during which votes cannot be increased, only decreased.