---
id: bhermes
title: Introducing bHermes
---

# Burning, New Utility Tokens and Expanded Governance

To enhance user experience and benefits around Hermes Tokenomics, the protocol has introduced three underlying utility tokens - bHermes Gauge, bHermes Boost, and bHermes Votes. These tokens enhance governance, rewards, and engagement within the platform, allowing token holders to participate in various governance processes.

## Burning
To acquire bHERMES, users must first permanently lock (burn) their HERMES tokens by depositing them into the Burner ERC-4626 Vault Contract accessible via the platform's user interface (UI). Users receive bHERMES ERC-4626 shares proportional to their deposit, based on a conversion ratio that starts at a 1:1 ratio at version 2 launch and increases with inflation, protecting voters from dilution.

## Utility Tokens
Unlock the potential of the Hermes Protocol with these three dynamic utility tokens designed to enhance your experience and rewards:

### [bHermes Gauges](./utility-tokens/01-bhermes-gauges.md): Direct Emissions and Earn Revenue
Take control of emissions distribution with bHermes Gauges. By voting on the direction of weekly emissions to gauges, you play a crucial role in shaping the protocol's revenue streams. Enjoy the benefits of your participation, as the revenue (including fees and bribes) generated by each gauge is distributed to users proportionate to their voting share, ensuring that your influence is rewarded.

### [bHermes Boost](./utility-tokens/02-bhermes-boost.md): Amplify Your Earnings
Supercharge your returns by holding bHermes Boost tokens. Experience an increase in your Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on staked liquidity by up to 2.5x. Enjoy a 40% APR with no boost and increased earnings of up to 100% APR with maximum boost, maximizing your earnings with ease.

### [bHermes Votes](./utility-tokens/03-bhermes-votes.md): Shape the Protocol's Future
Take control and steer the protocol's direction with bHermes Votes. This token grants you governance power, allowing you to participate in crucial decisions such as adding or removing gauges, partners, and various other governance processes. Your voice matters in creating a dynamic and responsive DeFi platform for all users.

## Conclusion

The introduction of the bHermes utility tokens and expanded governance processes promotes user engagement and benefits within the Hermes Protocol. These tokens empower the community to govern the protocol while also providing opportunities to earn increased rewards. As a bHERMES token holder, users can actively participate in governance, propose new gauges, direct HERMES emissions, collect bribes, enjoy boosted revenue on gauge deposits, and influence a wide range of governance decisions, ensuring a more dynamic and adaptive DeFi platform for all users.
