---
id: emissions
title: Emissions
---

[//]: # (TODO: Be more specific on where the emissions go)

HERMES has an inflationary supply and its emissions are the main driver behind the utility provided by the platform. Emissions are used to pay for the yield generated by the deposited assets. Thanks to the gauge system, the Hermes Protocol directs this inflation towards the creation of revenue instead of locked value.

Emissions are determined by the Minter contract according to the circulating supply of HERMES. Theoretically, this means that if every HERMES were to be burned, no emissions would ever be minted again and HERMES distribution to Gauges and their Providers would stop.

## Distribution

In this process, weekly HERMES distribution is allocated depending on votes from [bHermes Gauges](./utility-tokens/01-bhermes-gauges.md) holders. It's important to note that Emissions are decided at the end of each epoch and are linearly distributed throughout the whole epoch. This allows for a more smooth distribution of emissions and less volatility for the users and liquidity providers.

## DAO Emissions

Up to 30% of weekly emissions can be allocated to the DAO. These emissions should be used to ensure the long-term sustainability of the protocol. The DAO is responsible for the allocation of these emissions and can use them to fund the development of the protocol, pay for marketing, partnership programs or any other activity that benefits the protocol. This also works as an incentive for [bHermes Votes](./utility-tokens/03-bhermes-votes.md) holders to participate in the governance of the platform.