---
id: introduction
title: What Is Maia?
sidebar_position: 1
---

Welcome to Maia DAO 👋

Maia is the yield powerhouse of DeFi. With a 100% fair launch via bonds $MAIA is a truly community-owned token.
In turn, the Maian ecosystem aims to be a one-stop shop for different DeFi native financial instruments, a fully fledged trading hub currently featuring:
- **Maia** Decentralized Strategy Vaults
- [**Hermes**](./Hermes/introduction) Omnichain AMM and YLM (Yield and Liquidity Marketplace)
- [**TALOS**](./Talos/introduction) Transparent Automated Liquidity Omnichain Strategies
- [**Ulysses**](./Ulysses/introduction) Omnichain Liquidity Protocol

In order to sustainably bootstrap our surrounding ecosystem, Maia plans to continue onboarding long-term partnerships with protocols that ultimately add value to both our users and partners.

## What is the point of $MAIA?

$MAIA when locked as [vMAIA](./overview/tokenomics/vMaia) is a utility and governance token that drives the coordination mechanisms behind the whole Maian ecosystem. This allows us to decentralize the decision-making process, as well as entitle the token stakers to their share of the profits generated by the Maian Treasury.

As a DAO we constantly push towards improving our decentralized governance structure and processes. Maia leveraged OHM's Staking & Bonding Mechanics in its initial distribution phase. The emissions were distributed via rebase and capped at a supply of 180,000 $MAIA. From now on, $MAIA will only be emitted via strategic bonds proposed through governance.

This is achieved by providing exposure to yield-bearing tokens and a set of curated strategies. The first deployed strategies have been efficient liquidity provision and bribe collection in the Hermes Protocol.

Each $MAIA token is backed by a basket of blue-chip and revenue-generating assets in its treasury (e.g., sETH, stablecoins, and burnt Hermes). This backing guarantees a fair minimum value for each $MAIA token.

### Locking your $MAIA into vMAIA you will enable you to:

- Vote to control a share of Maia DAO's Voting Power
- Earn bribes on your MAIA Voting Power
- Earn a share of Maia's Treasury Revenue
 
## Where can I find more information about the ecosystem products

For info about Hermes, please check out our [**Hermes docs**](/protocols/Hermes/introduction) page.

For info about Talos, please check out our [**Talos docs**](/protocols/Talos/introduction) page.

For info about Ulysses, please check out our [**Ulysses docs**](/protocols/Ulysses/introduction) page.
