---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
---

[//]: # (TODO: explain how attaching/detaching works)
[//]: # (TODO: governance links)
[//]: # (TODO: Expand on current explanation on how the each gauges gets their hermes emissions)

The concept of gauges, first introduced into crypto’s hivemind by Curve Finance, is a core component in the Hermes system.

> An instrument that measures and gives a visual display of the amount, level, or contents of something – i.e. a fuel gauge.

Providing some further context, a weekly voting round is held using the protocol’s governance token - $bHERMES - to determine what share of the following week’s emission each gauge will be allocated with. In return, voters get to keep a cut from revenue accumulated inside the gauge, this revenue comes from the deposited assets' yield, as well as deposited bribes.

To sum up, there are 3 core players interacting with them:

1. **Providers** – deposit liquidity in the gauge for an Hermes APR. 
2. **Voters** – allocate voting power and determine the gauges Hermes APR in exchange for the bribes & fees accumulated inside the gauge.
3. **Partners** – deposit bribes into their gauge to pay for rented liquidity.

[Uniswap V3 Gauges](./uni-v3) are the first to be live in Hermes V2.

### Providers
Providers are the liquidity providers who are required to deposit capital to a given Gauge to earn $HERMES emissions.

### Voters
Direct emissions to different Gauges to earn a share of the Gauge's revenue.

### Partners
Bribe voters to attract TVL.

Gauges will receive as bribes the [protocol fees](../../../../Ulysses/concepts/overview/unified-liquidity/fees#protocol-fees) of their underlying asset's Ulysses [Unified Liquidity Pools](../../../../Ulysses/concepts/overview/unified-liquidity/pools).

## Practical Example

In this scenario, the Provider deposits a yield token(i.e. ulCVX) into the gauge in exchange for an Hermes APR. 
The yield generated by the ulCVX is then routinely deposited into the gauge and collected by all the Voters who allocated their bHERMES voting power to that gauge during the previous epoch, along with all the bribes Partners deposited as well.

## Gauge Cycle

Gauge cycles are weekly periods that gauges distribute HERMES to stakers. 

There is a gauge cycle per epoch, but there is a 12h offset. Epochs start at every Thursday 00:00 UTC and gauge cycles start at every Thursday 12:00 UTC. 

## Key Differences from previous iteration

Similarly to the Hermes AMM Gauges which you have all come to know and love — see [How do Hermes AMM Gauges Work?](https://maiaeco.notion.site/How-do-Gauges-on-Hermes-Protocol-Work-bac9ab39e57d4ab7aae488d6e09213d1) — V2 Gauges work on top of the same game theory and tokenomics principles.

The key difference revolves around the fact that the creation of Gauges is no longer limited to our own AMM’s pools, allowing for any yield bearing asset to be used as deposited liquidity.
