---
id: boost-aggregator
title: Boost Aggregator Factory
---

The Boost Aggregator Factory is a versatile and powerful tool that enables the deployment of Boost Aggregator contracts for Uniswap V3 NFTs and Hermes V2 gauges. By leveraging this factory, users can create instances of the Boost Aggregator that allow for aggregation of Uniswap V3 NFTs, boost management, and rewards distribution. Projects can benefit from the percentage of fees earned through the use of their boost, while individuals can enjoy a fully decentralized, non-custodial staking experience.

## Getting Started

### Deployment Process

To deploy the Boost Aggregator, you only need to specify the owner of the Boost Aggregator, which is typically yourself. The owner can be changed at any time, but only by the current owner.

### Customization Options

As the owner of a Boost Aggregator, you have control over several customization options:

- __bHermes Boost Utility Tokens__: You can decide how much bHermes Boost Utility Tokens to deposit for Uni V3 NFTs depositors to use. You can deposit more or withdraw at any time, giving you flexibility in managing the boost available to depositors.
- __Fee Percentage__: You can set the percentage of Uni V3 NFTs rewards that you receive as a fee. This allows you to earn a portion of the rewards generated by the staked NFTs.
- __Whitelisting__: You can whitelist other users, allowing them to stake their Uni V3 NFTs. It's important to note that only one position per address can be boosted at a time. If you whitelist multiple users who intend to stake the same position, the first one to stake will receive the boosted rewards. For this reason, it's recommended to whitelist users with a certain level of trust, especially if the position is not an immutable smart contract like a Talos position. This approach helps to minimize the risk of conflicts between whitelisted users over reward allocation.

### Integration with Hermes V2 Gauges

The Boost Aggregator integrates seamlessly with Hermes V2 Gauges by staking Uni V3 NFTs in the Hermes V2 Gauges' Uniswap V3 Staker. As the Boost Aggregator holds a balance of bHermes Boost tokens, the staked positions receive a boost on their rewards, up to 2.5x.

## Security and Best Practices

The Boost Aggregator Factory offers a secure solution through the following measures:

- __Immutable__: The smart contracts are completely immutable, without any proxy pattern.
- __Non-Custodial__: Only the user who deposited an NFT can redeem it, and only the owner can withdraw the deposited bHermes Boost tokens. This ensures that users and owners retain control over their respective assets.

### Conclusion

The Boost Aggregator Factory provides a user-friendly and powerful solution for deploying and managing Boost Aggregators for Uniswap V3 NFTs and Hermes V2 gauges. By offering a non-custodial, decentralized, and customizable staking experience, the Boost Aggregator Factory empowers projects and individuals to benefit from boosted Hermes rewards and simplified staking management.
